DOCUMENT: FinCEN SAR Activity Review - Issue 22
DESCRIPTION: Real SAR case studies and investigation insights
CATEGORY: case_studies
SOURCE: https://www.fincen.gov/sites/default/files/shared/sar_tti_22.pdf
EXTRACTED: 2025-07-29 22:05:15.145595

================================================================================
CONTENT:
================================================================================


--- Page 3 ---
The
SAR
Activity
Review
Trends
Tips & 
Issues 
Issue 22 
Published under the auspices of the BSA Advisory Group. 
October 2012Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
--- Page 5 ---
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)iTable of Contents
Introduction  1
Trends & Analysis  3
SAR Activity Review Customer Satisfaction Survey Results  3
Foreign-Located Money Services Businesses: An Insight into  
the foreign-located MSB Population  7
Law Enforcement Cases  11
Issues & Guidance  21
Project STAMP (Smugglers’ and Traffickers’ Assets,  
Monies and Proceeds)  21
Analysis of Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) Inquiries Received by  
FinCEN’s Regulatory Helpline  24
Suspicious Activity Reports: Back to the Basics  35
Writing Effective SAR Narratives  38
Industry Forum  47
Taking a Second Look at AML Risks from Business Funded  
Prepaid Cards: It’s a Whole New Ball Game  47
Feedback Form  57
The SAR Activity Review  Index  is available on the FinCEN website at:  
http://www.fincen.gov/news_room/rp/files/reg_sar_index.html   
For your convenience, topics are indexed alphabetically by subject matter.
--- Page 7 ---
1
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Introduction
The SAR Activity Review – Trends, Tips & Issues  is a product of continual dialogue 
and collaboration among the nation’s financial institutions, law enforcement 
officials and regulatory agencies to provide meaningful information about the 
preparation, use and value of Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs) and other FinCEN 
reports filed by financial institutions.
Each year, FinCEN conducts a survey of readers of the Trends, Tips & Issues  and its 
companion publication, By the Numbers.   In the Trends & Analysis section of this 
issue, we summarize the 2009-2011 ratings and feedback received for the Trends, Tips 
& Issues publication.  In this section, we also include an article on foreign-located 
money services businesses (MSBs) who have registered with FinCEN through 
August 2012 based on new registration requirements.
In early 2012, FinCEN conducted outreach to all of our state and local law 
enforcement partners and asked those entities to provide feedback on their use of 
FinCEN data.  The Law Enforcement Cases  section highlights how access to FinCEN’s 
Gateway system has assisted these agencies in their investigations.  
In Issues & Guidance , we include an article from U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement Homeland Security Investigations’ Project Smugglers’ and Traffickers’ 
Assets, Monies and Proceeds (Project STAMP).  Two articles from FinCEN staff 
included in this section focus on changes to the new FinCEN SAR and some of its 
new fields and features.  In this section, we also include help for filers in writing 
more effective SAR narratives, in particular examining SARs involving potentially 
unregistered MSBs and counterfeit checks.  
Finally, in the Industry Forum , we get an industry perspective on the AML risks 
presented by business funded prepaid cards.
As always, we very much appreciate your feedback.  Please take a moment to fill 
in the form at the end of this issue to let us know if the topics we have covered are 
helpful to you, as well as what you would like to see covered in future editions.
--- Page 8 ---
2
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)The SAR Activity Review – Trends, Tips & Issues  is possible only as a result of the 
extraordinary work of many FinCEN employees and FinCEN’s regulatory, law 
enforcement and industry partners.  FinCEN would also like to acknowledge 
the members of the Bank Secrecy Act Advisory Group (BSAAG) SAR Activity 
Review Subcommittee for their contributions to the development of this 
publication, particularly the Co-chairs noted below.
Helene Schroeder  
Special Counsel  
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Michael Cho  
Global Head, Anti-Money Laundering Compliance  
Northern TrustBarbara Bishop  
Regulatory Outreach Project Officer  
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
--- Page 9 ---
3
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Trends & Analysis
This section of The SAR Activity Review – Trends, Tips & Issues  contains 
information, such as those identified through analysis of FinCEN reports and 
calls to FinCEN’s Regulatory Helpline.
SAR Activity Review Customer Satisfaction 
Survey Results
By FinCEN’s Office of Outreach Resources
1. FinCEN uses the services of a federal contractor to conduct the survey and to provide FinCEN a 
report of the survey findings. 
2. Prior to the 2010 survey, FinCEN used contact information provided through regulatory reporting 
to identify the survey audience.  Beginning in 2010, FinCEN developed its list of survey recipients 
from persons who signed up to receive information on FinCEN publications via FinCEN Updates 
(available through FinCEN’s website), allowing FinCEN to better target readers of the publication 
for their feedback.  This survey covers only the most recent three-year period of surveys.Each year FinCEN conducts a survey  of readers  of Trends, Tips & Issues , along with 
its companion publication By the Numbers .  Respondents are asked to answer certain 
benchmarking questions about the publications and to rate the publications.  In 
rating Trends, Tips & Issues , respondents are asked questions about the usefulness of 
the main sections of the publication, as well as the value of the information in each 
section based on four criteria:  providing guidance on filing requirements; helping 
improve Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) or anti-money laundering (AML) programs; 
providing feedback on the use of Suspicious Activity Reports (SARs); and, the 
opportunity for readers to suggest future topics for the publication.  
--- Page 10 ---
4
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)This article summarizes the ratings received for the Trends, Tips & Issues  publication 
for the 2009 through 2011 surveys,3 and responses to the question: “What would you 
change to improve Trends, Tips & Issues ?”
Percentages of respondents who found  
Trends, Tips & Issues  useful:
2009 2010 2011
Overall satisfaction 73% 80% 80%
Issues & Guidance 80% 86% 86%
Law Enforcement Cases 74% 83% 82%
Trends & Analysis 70% 78% 78%
Industry Forum 67% 72% 73%
Value of information in Trends, Tips & Issues :
2009 2010 2011
Providing guidance on filing requirements 76% 81% 80%
Helping improve BSA or AML program 75% 79% 78%
Providing feedback on the use of SARs 72% 79% 79%
Opportunity to suggest future topics 68% 71% 72%
Key themes from survey responses
In characterizing the written responses to the question of what readers would 
change to improve Trends, Tips & Issues , there were several key themes.  Responses 
were categorized as based either on feedback on each section in the publication 
or leading trends in the responses, such as length and frequency of each issue, the 
general style and content of the publication, access to the publication and the focus 
on a theme for May issues of the publication.  
Issues & Guidance
Overall, survey respondents most frequently asked for more tips and guidance, such 
as how to complete forms, as well as how to avoid common errors and how to write 
more effective SAR narratives (i.e., narrative examples; key words to use in writing 
3. The 2012 customer satisfaction survey was conducted in June, 2012.  Results from the 2012 survey 
are not yet available. 
--- Page 11 ---
5
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)narratives; and, what is beneficial to law enforcement).  While some respondents 
asked for more feedback from regulators as to issues they identify in the field, most 
wanted to hear from FinCEN in the form of increased regulatory interpretation; 
information on the status of pending regulations; guidance on strengthening 
compliance programs (best practices, developing risk assessments); how to apply 
regulations and guidance; and, clarification of what has changed and what those 
changes mean for financial institutions.
This issue of Trends, Tips & Issues  includes an article comparing more effective and 
less effective SAR narratives reporting potentially unregistered MSBs or the passing 
of counterfeit checks.  In the Issues & Guidance  section of this issue, we also include 
information and tips for filers on some of the changes in the new FinCEN SAR form, 
the use of which will be required early in 2013.
Law Enforcement Cases
The single largest category of responses each year was a request for more (and 
more detailed) law enforcement cases.  Respondents frequently commented on the 
value of the cases in training employees, and indicated that more detail (i.e., red 
flags; what led to the institution’s identification of the activity and the subsequent 
SAR filing) would benefit them in identifying suspicious activity being conducted 
at their institutions.  They also indicated they would like to see more variety in the 
types of institutions and products profiled in the cases.  Respondents also frequently 
requested more feedback on the usefulness of SARs to law enforcement, specifically 
how they use the reports and statistics on the use of BSA reports in cases.
Unrelated to the survey, in early 2012, FinCEN conducted outreach to all our state 
and local law enforcement partners and asked those entities to provide feedback on 
their use of FinCEN data.  The Law Enforcement Cases  section highlights how access 
to FinCEN’s Gateway system has assisted these agencies in their investigations.  
Trends & Analysis
Respondents indicated they would like to see less emphasis on statistics and greater 
emphasis on an analysis of the activity being covered in this section to help in better 
understanding vulnerabilities and risks.  They indicated they would also like to 
see more information on new typologies, technologies, vulnerabilities and risks 
– including for products or specific industries – and better information on how to 
identify, monitor for and investigate these activities, as well as how to report them.  
They also would like to see more timely information presented in the publication.
--- Page 12 ---
6
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Industry Forum
While scoring well for usefulness, readers generally provided very little feedback on 
this section.  Respondents did say they would like to know how other BSA officers 
use the information contained in the publication (i.e., training), and other such 
feedback from peers.  Several respondents suggested a Q&A forum where readers 
could submit questions that would be answered in the publication.
General style/content of the publication
Some respondents suggested that the writing could be clearer and more concise, 
with less technical and legal verbiage.  Others commented that they would like to 
see the formatting changed to an easier to read font and more information on fewer 
pages (i.e., less white space).
Industry Focus
Many respondents indicated they like the industry focused issues, but don’t 
necessarily want the focus to be on one industry for an entire issue.  Instead, they 
suggested including more industry related topics in each issue – particularly smaller 
ones (such as community banks and credit unions), and industries that don’t receive 
as much attention (such as precious metals/jewelry and insurance).  One respondent 
suggested doing a feature article on a particular industry (rather than a whole 
issue), and including articles related to other industries, or content that is then 
applicable to all industries.  Some respondents suggested publishing an issue for 
each industry.  Respondents also expressed an interest in seeing more international 
focus in the publication’s content.
Access to publication/access to previously published information
Several respondents commented on how we notify readers when a new issue is 
published (via FinCEN Updates), asking if, for example, a PDF of the issue could 
be sent along with the Update notification.  Enhancing the index, which is available 
online, and improving the ability of readers to find content from past issues were 
also common requests.
Length & frequency of the publication
Respondents frequently commented that the publication should be shorter, and many 
suggested including something like an executive summary that would highlight the 
key points in each section/article – allowing readers to focus on the topics of particular 
interest to them.  Some respondents also thought it should be published more 
frequently than its current publication schedule of twice yearly (May and October.)  
--- Page 13 ---
7
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)We greatly appreciate the feedback that readers of the publication provide through 
the annual survey and through the online feedback process.  The feedback provided 
helps FinCEN in identifying enhancements and changes that will increase the value 
of the publication to its readers, and in identifying future topics for the publication, 
and we will look for opportunities where we can include these suggestions in future 
plans for the publication.  We encourage readers of the publication to sign up for 
FinCEN Updates4 to receive information on when the publication and survey are 
issued, and to continue to provide feedback.
Foreign-Located Money Services Businesses: 
An Insight into the foreign-located MSB 
Population 
By FinCEN’s Office of Outreach Resources
On July 21, 2011, FinCEN published in the Federal Register a final rule relating to 
money services businesses (the Final Rule).5  The Final Rule indicated that an entity 
may now meet the definition of a money services business (MSB) under the Bank 
Secrecy Act (BSA) regulations based on its activities within the United States, even 
if none of its agents, agencies, branches or offices is physically located in the United 
States.  The Final Rule arose in part from the recognition that the Internet and 
other technological advances make it increasingly possible for persons to offer MSB 
services in the United States from foreign locations.6
On March 14, 2012, FinCEN made available a new Registration of Money Services 
Business (RMSB) report.  The new RMSB (FinCEN RMSB) allowed for foreign-
located entities engaging in MSB activities in the United States to register as an MSB 
with FinCEN and thus comply with the registration requirement of the Final Rule.
4. Information on subscribing to FinCEN Updates can be found in the “What’s New” section of the 
FinCEN website at www.fincen.gov . 
5. Definitions and Other Regulations Relating to Money Services Businesses, 76 FR 43585  
(July 21, 2011). http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2011-07-21/pdf/2011-18309.pdf .
6. Id. at 43588.
--- Page 14 ---
8
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)FinCEN makes available to the public, through the MSB Registrant Search Web 
page,7 the registration information of MSBs submitting an RMSB.  FinCEN currently 
has approximately 37,000 registered MSBs,8 though this number fluctuates 
throughout the year as new registrations are processed and businesses that are no 
longer conducting MSB activities or fail to renew their registration drop off the 
registration list.  In this article, FinCEN examines the characteristics and common 
trends identified from the registered foreign-located MSB population.
Analysis
The data available in the MSB Registrant Search Web page contains self-reported 
information from U.S.-based and foreign-located MSBs.  As a result, the analysis 
summarized in this article is based on the information provided, through RMSBs, 
by foreign-located MSBs.  FinCEN staff analyzed the data to identify patterns and 
trends in the foreign-located MSB population, including geographic location and 
types of services provided. 
Findings
Through August 2012, 80 foreign-located MSBs had registered with FinCEN, and 
the available data revealed a number of key attributes about the foreign-located 
MSB population. 
Location of the foreign-located MSB Population
A geographic analysis of the foreign-located MSB population showed that the 
registrants were located only in the Americas or in the United Kingdom, with 72 (90 
percent) headquartered in Latin-America.  Mexico was home to the highest number 
of foreign-located MSBs who have registered, followed by Argentina and Uruguay.  
The majority of registered MSBs from non-U.S. jurisdictions, with the exception of 
those located in Mexico, were located in their home country’s capital city.  MSBs 
from Mexico, notably, originated from 27 states and a federal district.
7. http://fincen.gov/financial_institutions/msb/msbstateselector.html . 
8. http://fincen.gov/financial_institutions/msb/msbstateselector.html . 
--- Page 15 ---
9
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)The following map, as well as Table 1, breaks down the number of registered MSBs 
by country.
12A geographic analysis of the foreign -located MSB population showed that the 
registrants were located only in the Americas or i n the United Kingdom , with 72 
(90 percent) headquartered in Latin -America.  Mexico  was home to the highest 
number of foreign -located MSBs who have registered , followed by Argentina 
and Uruguay.  The majority of registered MSBs from non -U.S. jurisdictions, with 
the exception of those located in Mexico, were located in their home country’s 
capital city.  MSBs from Mexico, notably, originated from 27 states and a federal 
district.  
 
The following map, as well as Table 1, breaks down the number  of registered 
MSB s by county.  
 
 
 
 
Services Provided 
 
As part of the registration process, MSBs are asked to indicate the type of MSB activities that they provide or will be providing.  Forty five MSBs, or 56  percent  
of those registered, indicated they offered money trans mission services; 41 MSBs, Table 1:  
Number of MSBs by 
Country
Country of 
LocalityNumber of 
registered MSBs
Mexico 33
Argentina 12
Uruguay 11
United 
Kingdom4
Canada 4
Colombia 4
Panama 4
Venezuela 3
Chile 2
Peru 2
Dominican 
Republic1
Services Provided 
As part of the registration process, MSBs are asked to indicate the type of MSB 
activities that they provide or will be providing.  Forty five MSBs, or 56 percent of 
those registered, indicated they offered money transmission services; 41 MSBs, or 51 
percent of the population, specified being dealers in foreign exchange; 31 entities, or 
39 percent of the registered MSBs, said they provided check cashing services.  The 
registration information also revealed that 37 foreign-located MSBs, 46 percent of 
the population, engaged in more than one type of MSB activity.  Most notably, 31 
MSBs indicated that they offered both check cashing and foreign exchange services.
--- Page 16 ---
10
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Table 2: Number of MSBs by Activity
Category of MSB Activity 
ReportedNumber of registered 
MSBs
Check Cashier 31
Money Transmitter 45
Seller of Prepaid Access 1
Provider of Prepaid Access 1
Dealer in Foreign Exchange 41
Other 5
Geographic Location and the type of Services Provided 
The available data contained a large number of foreign-located MSBs that engage in 
more than one type of MSB activity; however, certain patterns of behavior emerged 
based on the MSB’s geographic location.
Contrasting patterns were observed when comparing MSB activities offered by those 
located in Mexico to those offered in almost any other country.  Nearly all of the 
MSBs located in Mexico offered both check cashing and foreign exchange services.  
MSBs in Argentina, Uruguay, Panama, United Kingdom, Colombia, Venezuela, 
Peru, Chile, and the Dominican Republic tended to provide money transmitting 
services.  Moreover, the only registered provider and seller of prepaid access was 
located in the United Kingdom.  The activities in which certain MSBs engage may be 
representative of local population trends as these entities strive to meet the demand 
of their customer base.
Conclusion 
FinCEN will continue its outreach efforts in order to help entities engaging in MSB 
activities to understand their BSA/AML obligations.  FinCEN expects the number of 
registered foreign-located MSBs to increase as the Internet and other technological 
advances make it increasingly possible for persons to offer MSB services in the 
United States from foreign locations.9  As additional foreign-located MSBs register 
with FinCEN, the registration information that will be provided will contribute 
significantly to a better understanding of the foreign-located MSB population and 
the services they provide.
9. Definitions and Other Regulations Relating to Money Services Businesses, 76 FR 43588  
(July 21, 2011). http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2011-07-21/pdf/2011-18309.pdf . Table 2 shows the totals reported for each category of MSB activity listed. 
--- Page 17 ---
11
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)In this section of The SAR Activity Review  we summarize cases where FinCEN 
information played an important role in the successful investigation and prosecution 
of criminal activity.  Law enforcement case examples can be found on the FinCEN 
website under the link to Law Enforcement .  This site is updated periodically with 
new cases of interest.  The index of cases  are listed by the type of form used in the 
investigation, type of financial institution involved, and type of violation committed.
Contributing editors: Shawn Braszo, Don Battle, Sean Donnelly, Jim Emery, and Jack 
Cunniff.
Since its creation in 1993, FinCEN’s Gateway program has served as the primary 
vehicle for state and local law enforcement to access FinCEN records.  Originally, 
FinCEN established coordinators in each state to access records on behalf of law 
enforcement in their jurisdiction.  As recognition of the value of FinCEN data grew, 
some major metropolitan police departments, as well as some statewide agencies, 
requested their own access to the data.  Today, querying FinCEN records in state 
and local investigations is a common occurrence.
In early 2012, FinCEN conducted outreach to all of our state and local law 
enforcement partners and asked for cases where FinCEN data played a useful role 
in their law enforcement investigations.  We received many case examples from our 
state coordinators, state agencies and local departments in response to our outreach.  
Below, in their own words , are just some examples of how our stakeholders use 
FinCEN data.  These examples have been edited only for confidentiality and 
privacy concerns.
State Coordinator Cases
State Coordinators are the primary contact points for local and state law 
enforcement agencies to obtain FinCEN records.  Depending on the state, the 
coordinator could be the attorney general, state police, or the department of public 
safety.  Frequently, the state coordinators are the primary contact point for a variety 
of resources that can benefit law enforcement agencies.   Law Enforcement Cases
--- Page 18 ---
12
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Identity Theft
“A local credit union began receiving online applications in January of 2010 for new 
accounts allegedly from females residing in a major metropolitan area.  Similarities in the 
online account applications started becoming apparent after fictitious checks were deposited 
via ATMs shortly after the accounts were opened.  It was discovered that each account was 
opened with a fictitious driver’s license (the names and personal identifying information 
were real), included previous addresses in another state, and came from IP addresses that 
were from the same location and provider.  One last application was received for a business 
account with a local address, but the business owner resided out of state.  The application 
came from an IP address in the same location as the previous applications.  Surveillance 
video from the ATM deposits into the accounts appeared to be the same person, sometimes 
carrying a small dog with a white car in the background which matched the business owner’s 
Facebook photos of herself, her dog, and her new car.  The females, whose names appeared on 
the previous online accounts, were contacted and it was verified that they were identity theft 
victims.  One of the victims had previously worked for the suspect. 
The credit union investigator requested the assistance of a state law enforcement unit 
and a federal agency.  Numerous SARs were found and helped to identify other financial 
institutions having similar activity with the same suspect, identified more identity theft 
victims, and pointed to other ongoing criminal investigations throughout the metro area.  
Further investigation identified associated persons and the identity theft ring was tied to 
several other criminal investigations involving the use of stolen personal and financial 
information to open credit accounts in several local jewelry stores where the members of the 
organization purchased several high-end pieces on credit which were later pawned for cash. 
A grand jury indicted the group consisting of the ring leader and four others.  The ring 
leader was sentenced to 20 years in prison.”
Welfare Fraud 
“ A request for a FinCEN commercial database, CTR, and SAR request was received from 
a county prosecuting attorney’s office regarding foreign nationals suspected of committing 
welfare fraud.  Information gathered indicated that the foreign nationals had set up a 
cleaning business on Craigslist that involved wire transfers made through Western Union.  
It was reported that one of the suspects involved may have been in the United States 
illegally.  The suspects were purported to have also engaged in welfare fraud in another state.
The information obtained from FinCEN was instrumental in the on-going investigation of 
the welfare fraud case and also resulted in the deportation of the illegal persons.”
--- Page 19 ---
13
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Embezzlement
“ A plastic surgeon discovered an embezzlement scheme by his bookkeeper when, during the 
bookkeeper’s vacation, he learned of his overdrawn account.  The bookkeeper had attempted to 
evade detection of the embezzlement by destroying, inter alia, bank records and tax deficiency 
notices.  FinCEN records led us to request all records for the subject’s gaming activity from 
local casinos and we established that the subject had been embezzling for over 5 years to 
support her gambling habit.  Upon our establishing an embezzlement of over $300,000 the 
subject took a nolo contendre plea and received a sentence of 20 years suspended after 78 
months.”
Fraud
“ A local police department received a complaint from a woman who had fallen victim to 
an advance-fee lottery scheme perpetrated by an individual from another state.  FinCEN 
matched the local investigator to that state’s law enforcement community and we discovered 
that the out-of-state perpetrator had in fact been victimized by others who had pressed him to 
send money overseas.  FinCEN records were critical in helping local police coordinate their 
efforts with the other state’s law enforcement agency, helping to save valuable man-hours at 
the local level.”
Elder Abuse (Financial)
“FinCEN data was critical in identifying the disposition of a $20,000 withdrawal from a 
bank account of elderly persons.  Investigators had earlier executed a search warrant for the 
records of the victims at the bank that had filed the CTR, but the bank had inadvertently 
missed the transaction in question.  The discovery of the CTR resulted in us urging the bank 
to complete its compliance with the initial search warrant.  Records pertaining to the cash 
withdrawal helped arrest the subject on charges of larceny totaling $218,000.”
Cases from an Attorney General’s Office
Case A
“The defendant owned gas stations, and following an investigation by the department of 
revenue the defendant was indicted on multiple counts of fraud related to sales and tax records.
A FinCEN search was conducted on the defendant and the defendant’s businesses.  
Information obtained through FinCEN established that the defendant had made numerous 
large cash deposits during the period of time covered by the indictment.  The defendant was 
confronted with this information.  Shortly thereafter, the defendant pled guilty to all charges.
--- Page 20 ---
14
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)In addition, the defendant claimed he had no assets.  The FinCEN searches identified financial 
accounts controlled by the defendant.  This information was vital at sentencing.  The defendant 
was sentenced to a period of probation and ordered to pay almost $1 million in restitution.”
Case B
“The defendant was the former president of a technology firm.  The defendant executed a 
false billing scheme involving multi-million dollar contracts with the state for drug testing.  
During negotiations with the defendant to settle a false claim suit, the defendant asserted 
that her assets had dissipated.  FinCEN searches provided account and deposit information 
of accounts controlled by the defendant.  This information was important in obtaining a 
settlement of almost $400,000 in restitution to the state.”
Case C
“A FinCEN search of the defendant company identified a Suspicious Activity Report.  The 
information contained in the SAR was used to track down additional loan transactions.  
Interviews of newly identified victims led to the filing of an Amended Complaint naming the 
owner of the mortgage company as a defendant and individually liable.  Shortly thereafter, 
the case settled with $7,500 in restitution and a $10,000 civil penalty.”
State Agency Cases
FinCEN maintains Memoranda of Understanding with some state agencies that 
have criminal investigative authority in matters such as taxes, revenues, and 
gambling.  Typically, these agencies requested FinCEN data so frequently that they 
tended to overburden the state coordinators.  Based on the agencies’ mission and 
use of the data, FinCEN provides access to ensure that BSA material is used to its 
fullest extent.
Insurance Fraud
“I am a crime intelligence analyst in the fraud division currently assisting my detective on 
a worker’s compensation case that involves a check cashing company.  We decided to look at 
the companies that have cashed the largest number of checks at this particular check cashing 
establishment.  We wanted to see if in fact the amount of payroll cashed was equivalent 
to what was reported to the worker’s compensation insurance carrier.  After getting the 
worker’s compensation coverage information, I realized that the company did not have any 
coverage in over 3 years.  I was a bit disappointed because I was hoping the company was 
still in business and active in cashing checks, otherwise the case would not pan out to be 
much of anything.
--- Page 21 ---
15
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)The decision to run a FinCEN report on the company was made, and lo and behold, CTRs 
for this particular company have been nonstop through and including those years they 
were not covered by worker’s compensation insurance, including a recent transaction.  Our 
investigation received a boost thanks to FinCEN.”
Money Services
“Our money service business squad considers the FinCEN intelligence as invaluable to 
their work.  Without it, there would be no MSB investigations.  The vital reason for using 
the FinCEN intelligence is that it identifies some of the filers as known criminals, which 
in turn incriminates the money service businesses that they are utilizing.  The financial 
analysis on FinCEN also corroborated the days of the week when the criminal activity 
occurs most frequently.”
Taxes
“This case involved a doctor who had not accurately reported his true income filed on state 
and city business and personal income tax returns for several years.  As a result of “mining” 
FinCEN data, we discovered this doctor had moved over $3 million to accounts in offshore 
locations.  The source of this money was diverted insurance payment checks that were 
initially deposited into personal accounts and then forwarded offshore.  Further investigation 
determined this money had not been reported on the business or personal income tax returns.  
It was also discovered that he distributed money into domestic accounts held in his children’s 
names and into other investment accounts.
After reviewing subpoenaed bank account information and 1099 statements from insurance 
companies, we determined the doctor had underreported his income by more than $6 million 
for tax years 2005 through 2009.  The doctor learned of the investigation through one of 
the subpoenaed financial institutions.  His counsel contacted the prosecutor’s office and 
indicated his client wanted to pay his full tax liability and take responsibility for what he had 
done wrong.”
Local Municipality Cases
Local police and sheriff agencies increasingly use FinCEN records in their 
investigations.  Many local agencies have representatives on SAR review teams and 
task forces that share FinCEN data.  In addition, FinCEN has given direct access to 
some local agencies with a robust financial crime focus that have a history of using 
the data.
--- Page 22 ---
16
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Illegal Exports
“While investigating subjects of interest because of previous criminal activity, local 
detectives and federal agents found multiple SARs indicating (cash-in) illicit structured 
transactions designed to avoid reporting requirements.  Investigators found SARs filed in 
a 2-year period on a pilot and operator of a passenger jet charter service operating from a 
townhouse residence in the local area, detailing a pattern of structuring.
After reviewing numerous SARs, detectives noted that from in a 14-month period, there were 
two hundred and fifty three (cash-in) structured deposits totaling approximately $1.7 million.
In addition, other SARs noted that the main subject used approximately 16 bank accounts 
titled in his name, the names of his family members, friends or business associates, or names 
of companies owned by him, family members or business associates to make the placement of 
the structured cash deposits.
After the initial structured cash deposits, the SARs noted that the funds were combined and 
moved from the initial account to or through one or more of the associated accounts to layer 
prior to being transferred to destination accounts.  Subsequently, the pooled funds were 
transferred from the destination accounts to the escrow account of the respective aircraft title 
companies to purchase aircraft as the final step in the integration process.
Based on SARs, detectives subpoenaed and reviewed video bank surveillance tapes.  The 
video bank surveillance clearly noted that two bank employees assisted in the structured cash 
deposits to include knowingly and willfully failing to file a Currency Transaction Report, as 
required by law.
A bank legal internal investigation was initiated and upon completion, a total of 11 bank 
employees were terminated.  The main bank official (a subject associate) was later indicted for 
conspiracy to commit money laundering. 
Following one of the money trail in this investigation, also led to a personal check that was 
traced to a freight forwarding company.  Further investigation revealed that the check was 
payment for shipment of an exported container.  A subpoena was served upon the freight 
forwarding company for any and all documents related to the subjects.  Review of those 
documents uncovered that the subjects exported 11 stolen boats.  This information was 
forwarded to federal agencies which assisted in the indictment of four additional targets in 
another criminal investigation.
--- Page 23 ---
17
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)As a result of this SAR investigation, detectives seized 32 bank accounts, two Lear jets, three 
high-end vehicles and obtained probable cause for a search warrant for the subject’s residence 
which resulted in the seizure of additional bulk cash discovered hidden in the attic.  The case 
further resulted in seven state arrest warrants being issued.  All but one arrest warrant were 
served, the seventh subject escaped prosecution by fleeing out of the country.”
Failure to Follow Reporting Requirements 
“ An investigation was initiated on a jewelry and pawn store and its owner due to 
information obtained by a confidential source (CS).  According to the CS, the store was a 
money service business that was assisting in the laundering of illegal gambling proceeds 
by cashing checks over $10,000 without complying with the reporting requirement as 
mandated by the U.S. Department of Treasury.  Either the Currency Transaction Report 
(CTR) was never filed or, the information listed on the CTR was intentionally incorrect 
and misleading.  The owner also provided the CS with a list of nominee names that should 
be used as payees on the checks in order to conceal the identity of the persons cashing the 
checks.  The owner was aware that the checks being cashed by these individuals were from 
illicit gambling proceeds and would charge 4 to 6% of the checks in order to cash them and 
violate the reporting requirement for these individuals, instead of her normal fee of 2 to 3% 
for legitimate customers.
In order to verify the validity of the information, an undercover operation was initiated 
which targeted the store and its owner.  The undercover officer (UO) was introduced to 
the owner by the CS as an individual needing checks cashed without the filing of a CTR.  
The UO then cashed numerous checks at the business with the owner that were each over 
$10,000.  The checks were intentionally made payable to a false nominee name, which was 
on a list of names provided by the owner.  When the checks were cashed by the UO, the 
owner failed to obtain his identification for the CTR and cashed the checks anyway.  The 
owner charged the UC 4% for each check cashed.  Three checks were cashed by the UO in 
this manor totaling $33,000.  Using the FinCEN data base, it was confirmed that the owner 
failed to file the CTRs for the three checks cashed by the UC at her business.
In addition to the undercover operation, a financial analysis of the business bank accounts for 
the years 2008-2009 revealed 105 checks cashed at the business that were all over $10,000.  A 
FinCEN data base check revealed that these transactions either did not have a corresponding 
CTR or the CTR that was filed had inaccurate information concealing the identity of the person 
receiving the cash.  The total dollar amount of checks cashed by the owner that violated the 
reporting requirement was $3.2 million dollars for the years 2008-2009.
As a result of using the FinCEN database, this case resulted in the state prosecution and the 
seizure of almost $150,000.”
--- Page 24 ---
18
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Narcotics Trafficking, Money Laundering, and Mortgage Fraud
“Beginning in 2009, a major drug investigation was established on targets who were a group 
of narcotics traffickers in the local area.
While conducting FinCEN checks, a number of CTRs and 8300s were observed on the 
main targets.  The CTRs led this detective to the targets’ main bank accounts, and through 
subpoenas, we were able to identify assets that had been purchased with laundered funds 
from narcotic sales.  The 8300s also identified assets that were later seized reference to being 
purchased with laundered funds from narcotic sales.
Four subjects were arrested and charged with Title 21 U.S.C 963 Conspiracy to Import at 
least 5 Kilograms of Cocaine, and Title 18 U.S.C 1956 Money Laundering.  One subject was 
charged with bank fraud.  Approximately $1.4 million in property and assets were seized and 
all subjects have pleaded guilty and are serving their sentences in federal prison.”
Stolen Cars
“Members of the county police department had been conducting a joint investigation 
targeting a multi-spectrum stolen/carjacked vehicle exportation organization.
During the months of March and April, 2011, the police department conducted an 
investigation into the purchasing of stolen and carjacked vehicles from within the county 
that were being exported to Africa.  During the investigation, several suspects were 
identified as key members of the operation.  FinCEN queries were conducted, and this 
information was used to confirm and identify additional locations for the suspects operation.  
Due to this information, numerous search and seizure warrants were executed and stolen 
property was recovered, along with the arrests of three suspects.
The three suspects in this case were subsequently charged in U.S. district court where they 
have pleaded guilty and have received federal prison sentences.”
SARs/CTRs Lead to Asset Forfeiture
“While investigating an alleged robbery at an upscale hotel, local law enforcement officials 
identified the complainant of the alleged robbery as a suspected drug trafficker.  The initial 
investigation also resulted in the on scene-seizure of currency in excess of $131,000.  Asset 
forfeiture investigators found SARs filed in 2010 and 2012, as well as CTR information filed 
during 2011, directly associated to the defendant.
This SAR and CTR information assisted investigators with the identification of bank 
accounts and detailed the structuring of funds.  Specifically, within a 2-year period, the 
--- Page 25 ---
19
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)defendant structured more than $246,000 by means of cash deposits and cash withdrawals.  
The defendant had no record of legitimate employment and provided investigators with 
conflicting information as to the origin of the $131,000.
As the investigation progressed, the defendant attempted to bribe several law enforcement 
officials in an attempt to avoid criminal charges.  Preliminary investigation did not identify 
any accounts subject to seizure and/or forfeiture, at present.  The defendant’s criminal 
history for trafficking controlled dangerous substances, combined with current evidence of 
marijuana possession, drug ledgers for bulk sales of marijuana distribution, and evidence 
refuting the alleged robbery resulted in the forfeiture of the aforementioned seized currency.”
Drugs and Money Laundering
“In October of 2010, while observing a vehicle with an out of state registration and heavily 
tinted windows traveling in the Northwest quadrant of the city, officers conducted a 
traffic stop on the vehicle.  A registration check on the tags revealed that the tags had been 
suspended.  After observing what appeared to be marijuana on the floor of the vehicle in front 
of the front seat passenger, the officers asked the owner for consent to search the vehicle.  The 
vehicle was occupied by three men.
A search of the vehicle uncovered over $16,000 in U.S. currency and $53,000 in money 
orders from various locations within the city.  The money orders were in various 
denominations and had all been purchased within a 2 to 3-day time frame.  The vehicle’s 
owner was arrested for having an unregistered vehicle.  Seized from the driver was an 
additional $150 in U.S. currency.  All the currency and money orders were seized for civil 
forfeiture processing.  Additionally, further investigation into the matter led to the issuance 
of a search warrant for the driver’s local address.  Seized as a result of the warrant was an 
additional $5,953 in U.S. currency, fifty-four and three-tenths (54.3) grams of marijuana, 
and thirty Oxycodone pills.
As a result of the financial investigation, a FinCEN Gateway query revealed possible 
“smurfing” activities by the vehicle’s owner.  This information assisted in the administrative 
forfeiture of both the currency and money orders.”
--- Page 27 ---
21
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)This section of The SAR Activity Review  discusses current issues, including those raised 
with regard to the preparation and filing of SARs, and provides guidance to filers.  
Project STAMP (Smugglers’ and Traffickers’ 
Assets, Monies and Proceeds)
By United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Homeland 
Security Investigations
Project Smugglers’ and Traffickers’ Assets, Monies and Proceeds (Project STAMP) 
is a U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) Homeland Security 
Investigations’ (HSI) enforcement initiative aimed at targeting the illicit proceeds 
earned by human smuggling and human trafficking (HS/HT) organizations.  These 
criminal networks create substantial risks to the security of the United States.
In an effort to make sure that HSI utilizes the full thrust of the authorities granted to 
them as a result of the creation of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), HSI 
launched Project STAMP to: 
(1) Attack organizations involved in HS/HT from an aggressive anti-
money laundering stance.  Following the money trail will assist HSI in the 
identification of key members of criminal organizations involved in HS/HT 
activity, as well as the identification of assets, monies and proceeds derived 
from or used in support of their criminal activity; and, 
(2) Ensure the seizure of these assets, which is crucial to shutting down 
entrenched criminal activity.
HSI has already identified a multitude of methods to hide, move and store illicit 
proceeds associated with illegal activity, including financial institutions, money 
services businesses, bulk cash smuggling organizations, etc.  Seizing the funds that 
motivate and amplify the problems associated with these organizations is a high 
priority for HSI and DHS.Issues & Guidance
--- Page 28 ---
22
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)HSI continues to explore ways in which the government and the private sector 
can productively partner together to better identify and report on the suspicious 
transaction activity related to HS/HT organizations.  HSI’s efforts related to Project 
STAMP are in accordance with the guiding principle within DHS’s Strategic Plan of 
building trust through collaboration and partnerships.
As part of Project STAMP, HSI aims to continuously identify and disseminate 
typologies/red flag indicators related to money laundering by HS/HT organizations.  
The goal is to map out how these organizations use the financial sector, both 
domestically and abroad, to collect payment for illegal services rendered and to 
share these methods with the financial community, ultimately resulting in the 
shutting down of identified vulnerabilities.  A preliminary review of both active 
and closed HS/HT investigations has identified the following red flag indicators of 
suspicious financial transactions associated with HS/HT organizations:
 2Structuring both deposits and international wires to avoid currency transaction 
reports;
 2Bank accounts being opened for businesses where the customer does not 
appear to have any involvement in activities related to the business;
 2Bank accounts opened in the name of companies that do not have any genuine 
business activities that are consistent with the type of company they claim to 
be;
 2Wire transfers from one business account to another that have no apparent ties;
 2Multiple ATM withdrawals at the daily maximum amount (in this case, $1,000 
per day);
 2The use of credit card processing accounts with corresponding business fronts 
with even number charges credited to the account ranging from $300 to $5,000 
dollars;
• Credit card payments to online escort services for advertising. These 
include small posting fees to companies such as Craigslist as well as more 
expensive, higher-end advertising and website hosting companies.
 2Numerous BSA filings by multiple financial institutions;
 2Large cash deposits inconsistent with business type;
 2Large payments to foreign companies that are inconsistent with the amount of 
--- Page 29 ---
23
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)product received from these companies;
 2Unusual withdrawal, deposit or wire activity inconsistent with normal business 
practices, or dramatic and unexplained change in account activity;
 2Sudden change in customer’s normal business practices, i.e., dramatic increase 
in deposits, withdrawals or wealth;
 2Structuring financial transactions at money service businesses (MSBs) (multiple 
financial transactions structured under the $3,000 MSB’s reporting limit on the 
same day); and
 2Numerous incoming wire transfers or personal checks deposited into business 
accounts with no apparent legitimate purpose.
The success of Project STAMP is integral to our mission of protecting the homeland 
by shutting down criminal organizations that seek to exploit individuals through 
smuggling or trafficking schemes.  This enforcement initiative is impacting criminal 
organizations as a whole, by targeting the methods by which these organizations 
move and launder money to support their illegal activity.
Protecting the United States is more than just a responsibility for government 
agencies; it’s a shared mission for all Americans.  The importance of private sector 
partnership in this shared mission cannot be overstated.  There are several ways 
individuals and businesses can help:
• Partner  – Become a private sector partner with HSI by contacting your local 
HSI Special Agent in Charge office and arranging a Cornerstone presentation 
for your business or organization;
• Report – Report suspicious financial, commercial or trade activity by contacting 
your local HSI Special Agent in Charge office, or by calling 1-866-DHS-2- ICE; 
and,
• Subscribe  – Sign up for HSI’s quarterly newsletter, The Cornerstone Report , for 
new developments in financial and trade fraud crimes.
HSI is the largest investigative agency in the Department of Homeland Security.  HSI’s 
mission is to conduct criminal investigations by utilizing our investigative authority 
to protect the United States against terrorist and other criminal organizations who 
threaten our safety and national security; to combat transnational criminal enterprises 
who seek to exploit America’s legitimate trade, travel, and financial systems; and 
--- Page 30 ---
24
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)to uphold and enforce America’s customs and immigration laws at and beyond our 
nation’s borders.  To learn more about Project STAMP and how you can contribute to 
the shared mission of Homeland Security, visit www.ice.gov/cornerstone .
Analysis of Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) 
Inquiries Received by FinCEN’s Regulatory 
Helpline
By FinCEN’s Office of Outreach Resources
FinCEN operates a Regulatory Helpline that provides assistance for financial 
institutions seeking clarification of their obligations under FinCEN’s regulations 
implementing the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) and certain requirements of the Uniting 
and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept 
and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT) Act and other statutory authorities.10  This 
article provides financial institutions with guidance and instruction regarding the 
proper completion of the new FinCEN Suspicious Activity Report (FinCEN SAR).  
The article specifically addresses common inquiries that the Regulatory Helpline 
received regarding completion of the FinCEN SAR and provides a compilation of 
additional helpful guidance and instruction.
FinCEN SAR Filing Guidance and Instructions
Between July 1, 2011 and June 30, 2012, the Regulatory Helpline received 1,690 
inquiries associated with FinCEN’s SAR regulations or requesting assistance in 
filing a SAR.  Since March 29, 2012, when financial institutions began submitting the 
FinCEN SAR using FinCEN’s BSA E-Filing System, approximately one in four of all 
SAR inquiries have been directly associated with completion of the FinCEN SAR.
Effect of FinCEN SAR on existing regulatory obligations
A common theme among these FinCEN SAR inquiries was uncertainty regarding 
the status of FinCEN’s SAR regulations and compliance requirements.  Financial 
institutions repeatedly sought reassurance that the underlying reporting obligations 
had not changed with the issuance of the new, electronic-only FinCEN SAR.  
FinCEN publicly clarified this fact by issuing guidance  on the use of new FinCEN 
10. Financial institutions can contact FinCEN’s Regulatory Helpline at 800-949-2732 or by e-mailing 
BSA_Resource_Center@fincen.gov . 
--- Page 31 ---
25
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)SAR (and FinCEN Currency Transaction Report or CTR) when the new reports 
began to be accepted.  Specifically, the guidance noted that the FinCEN SAR (and 
FinCEN CTR) “ does not create new obligations or otherwise change existing 
statutory and regulatory expectations of financial institutions. ” 
Deadlines for adopting the FinCEN SAR and mandatory e-filing
Following the initial release of the technical specifications  for the new FinCEN SAR 
on September 29, 2011, and the proposal  mandating the electronic filing of reports 
submitted to FinCEN, industry raised concerns in its comments  to the mandatory 
e-filing proposal regarding the potential challenge on meeting both requirements 
simultaneously no later than June 30, 2012.  FinCEN provided substantial 
clarification on the interplay of these two separate, but related requirements in a 
notice that established the deadline by which financial institutions must adopt the 
electronic-only FinCEN SAR to be March 31, 2013, while restating the expectation 
that mandatory e-filing would be required as of July 1, 2012.  That notice also made 
clear that until March 31, 2013, financial institutions could continue to file the older 
or “legacy” versions of the industry-specific SARs.  However, institutions may begin 
filing on the FinCEN SAR prior to March 31, 2013.  The final notice  establishing the 
requirement of mandatory electronic filing for all reports submitted to FinCEN, with 
certain limited exemptions, cemented that deadline as July 1, 2012.  
As of July 1, 2012, therefore, all financial institutions, unless granted a specific 
limited-time exemption from FinCEN, must file all SARs electronically.  Institutions 
filing paper SARs will be informed of their error and may be subject to civil money 
penalties for continued reporting requirement violations.  Starting April 1, 2013, all 
financial institutions must file the FinCEN SAR.  At that point, no electronically filed 
legacy SARs will be accepted.
Common filing assistance inquiries
To assist financial institutions in their adoption of the new FinCEN SAR, FinCEN’s 
Regulatory Helpline and E-Filing Help Desk have been responding to a variety of 
technical and regulatory-related inquiries regarding the new report.  The remainder 
of this article provides helpful guidance, instructions, and other information for 
financial institutions regarding the appropriate way to complete a FinCEN SAR.  
In particular, we focus on how to complete a specific “Step” or “Item” with the 
new FinCEN SAR, much of which can be found in the guidance documents and 
notices highlighted earlier in this article or within Appendix C of the FinCEN SAR 
--- Page 32 ---
26
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)technical specifications that are located at http://bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/news/
FinCENSARElectronicFilingRequirements.pdf .  Financial institutions are also able 
to review and download the test copy of the FinCEN SAR to assist in their efforts 
to adopt the new standard format by accessing FinCEN’s BSA E-Filing System 
user test site at http://sdtmut.fincen.treas.gov/news/SuspiciousActivityReport.pdf .  
Additionally, this publication includes another helpful article  providing general 
guidance on compliance with FinCEN’s requirements when using a FinCEN SAR 
and a further article explaining how to complete a well-written FinCEN SAR 
narrative.  Finally, FinCEN has made available a recorded webinar addressing 
most of the same questions and areas of guidance for completing the FinCEN SAR 
included in this article http://www.fincen.gov/whatsnew/html/20120928.html .
Miscellaneous inquiries related to all Steps and/or Items
• When do you check the “Unknown” box?   Financial institutions should file all 
FinCEN Reports with complete and correct information.  However, if an Item is 
unknown, leave that Item blank and check the “Unknown” box. 
• Are Items without an asterisk required to be completed?   Items with an 
asterisk (“*” or Items displaying a “yellow” field) are critical fields that the 
filer is required to complete before the FinCEN Report can be submitted 
electronically.  If an Item does not have an asterisk, it is not a critical field.  
However, financial institutions should file all FinCEN Reports with complete 
and correct information.  As noted above, if an Item is unknown for a critical 
field, the institution must check the associated “Unknown” box or the 
electronic filing cannot be submitted.
• What if the report requires multiple Steps or Items of the same section, 
such as branch information, subject information, and financial institution 
information?   If a particular FinCEN SAR requires multiple Steps and/
or Items of the same section, the filer would click the “+” button to create 
additional Steps and/or Items.  Batch filers would add additional records of 
the same type.  For example, there would be multiple 2C records for activity 
occurring at multiple branch locations, multiple 4A records to accommodate 
more than one suspect, and multiple 2B records if more than one financial 
institution was involved.
--- Page 33 ---
27
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)• How do you enter data that is formatted, such as phone numbers and 
identifying numbers?   Enter all identifying numbers as a single text string 
without formatting or special characters such as hyphens or periods.  The 
below example demonstrates how a phone number would appear.
30information?   If a particular FinCEN SAR requires multiple Steps and/or 
Items of the same section , the filer would click the “+” button to create 
additional Steps and/or  Items.  Batch filers would add additional records of 
the same type.  For example, there would be multiple 2C records for activity 
occurring at multiple branch locations, multiple 4A records to accommodate 
more than one suspect, and multiple 2B records if more than one financial 
institution was involved.  
 •How do you enter data that is forma tted, such as phone numbers and 
identifying numbers?  Enter all identifying numbers as a single text string without formatting or special characters such as hyphens or periods.  The 
below example demonstrates how a phone number would appear.  
 
 
 
•When/How d o you file a report for continuing activity?   In the May 2012 
SAR Activity Review (Issue 21) , FinCEN provided guidance on  regulatory 
obligations regarding filing a SAR on continuing activity which explain the 
timing of when the activity should be reported and the deadlines for the 
SARs.  http://www.fincen.gov/news_room/rp/files/sar_tti_21.pdf .  
 
The FinCEN SAR has made the reporting of continuing activity easier for 
filers.  In Item 1 (Filing Type), filers must check the “Continuing activity 
report” box to denote that the report is on continuing activity.  The filer should include the prior report Document Control Number or File Number to 
associate the current filing with the past report.  • When/How do you file a report for continuing activity?   In the May 2012 
SAR Activity Review (Issue 21), FinCEN provided guidance on regulatory 
obligations regarding filing a SAR on continuing activity which explain the 
timing of when the activity should be reported and the deadlines for the SARs.  
http://www.fincen.gov/news_room/rp/files/sar_tti_21.pdf . 
 The FinCEN SAR has made the reporting of continuing activity easier for filers.  
In Item 1 (Filing Type), filers must check the “Continuing activity report” box 
to denote that the report is on continuing activity.  The filer should include the 
prior report Document Control Number or File Number to associate the current 
filing with the past report.
--- Page 34 ---
28
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22) Then, in Item 28 (Cumulative amount), filers can enter both the amount associated 
with the suspicious activity being reported within the filing but also separately 
enter the cumulative amount for all the continuing activity (note: this Item is only 
applicable when the “Continuing activity report” box is checked in Item 1).
31 
 
 
Then, in Item 28 ( Cumulative amount), filers can enter both the amount 
associated with the suspicious activity being reported within the filing but also separately enter the cumulative  amount for all the continuing activity 
(note: this item is only app licable when  the "Continuing activity report" box is 
checked in Item 1) . 
 
 
31 
 
 
Then, in Item 28 ( Cumulative amount), filers can enter both the amount 
associated with the suspicious activity being reported within the filing but also separately enter the cumulative  amount for all the continuing activity 
(note: this item is only app licable when  the "Continuing activity report" box is 
checked in Item 1) . 
 
 
--- Page 35 ---
29
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Inquiries related to Items in Step 1 (Filing Institution Contact 
Information)
• “Type of financial institution” (Item 82)  – Select the option that identifies the 
type of financial institution entered in Item 79 (Filer name).  If none of the options 
apply, select “Other” and enter a brief description in the associated text field.  
 If the financial institution is a non-bank residential mortgage lender or originator , 
select “Other” and enter “ NON-BANK RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE ” in 
the associated text field.  If the financial institution is a dealer in precious metals, 
stones, or jewels , select option “Other” and enter “ DEALER IN PRECIOUS 
METALS STONES JEWELS ” in the associated text field.  
 
• “Primary federal regulator” (Item 78)  – Select the appropriate option from the 
drop-down list to identify the Primary Federal Regulator or BSA Examiner of the 
filing institution.  If more than one regulator option could apply, select the regulator 
that has primary responsibility for enforcing compliance with the BSA.  If Item 
82 option “Casino/Card Club,” “Insurance Company,” or “MSB” is selected, the 
Item 78 entry must be “Internal Revenue Service (IRS).”  If the financial institution 
filing the FinCEN SAR is subject to U.S. law and none of the other codes apply, 
--- Page 36 ---
30
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)as may be the case11 for non-bank residential mortgage lenders or originators, the 
entry must be “Internal Revenue Service (IRS).”  If the FinCEN SAR is being filed 
by a government agency or if the financial institution filing the FinCEN SAR is not 
subject to U.S. law, the entry must be “Not Applicable”.  
• “Financial institution identification” (Item 84)  – Select the option that 
identifies the financial institution entered in Item 79 (Filer name) and enter 
the identifying number in the text field.  If “Research, Statistics, Supervision 
and Discount (RSSD)” is selected, but the identifying number is unknown, the 
information can be accessed at the Federal Financial Institutions Examination 
Council (FFIEC) Web Site at http://www.ffiec.gov/find/callreportsub.htm . 
• Address information for filing institution (Items 85-89)  – Enter the permanent 
street address for the financial institution entered in Item 79 (Filer name).
• “Internal control/file number” (Item 91)  – To avoid an illegal disclosure of 
a FinCEN SAR, financial institutions often assign a unique internal control 
number/file number to each report, which law enforcement or regulatory 
agencies can reference without disclosing the existence or content of a 
particular FinCEN SAR.  Use this field to reference any such assigned unique 
control number for the SAR.
• “Law Enforcement (LE) contact information” (Items 92-95)  – If an LE 
agency was informed of the suspicious activity, enter the LE agency’s contact 
information in Items 92-95. 
• “Filing institution contact office” (Item 96)  – Enter the name of the filing 
institution contact office where additional information about the FinCEN SAR 
or supporting documentation can be requested.  
• “Filing institution contact phone number” (Item 97)  – Enter the contact office 
telephone number and extension (if there is an extension). 
Inquiries related to Items in Step 2 (Filing Institution Where 
Activity Occurred)
• “Type of financial institution” (Item 47)  – See Item 82 in Step 1 for answer to 
similar question.
11. See FinCEN Administrative Ruling FIN-2012-R005  for clarification regarding the primary 
federal regulator of certain non-bank mortgage lenders and originators that are subsidiaries of 
federally regulated banks.
--- Page 37 ---
31
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)• “Primary federal regulator” (Item 48)  – See Item 78 in Step 1 for answer to similar 
question.
• “Financial institution identification” (Item 51)  – See Item 84 in Step 1 for answer 
to similar question .
• “Financial institution’s role in transaction” (Item 52)  – Check the box that 
describes the financial institution’s role in the transactions identified in the 
suspicious activity as it pertains to the products or instruments checked in 
Items 39 and 40 (if both apply, check “Both”).  For example, a money services 
business (MSB) selling money orders would choose “Selling location” while 
the same MSB would choose “Paying location” if it cashed the money orders 
involved in the suspicious activity.  If the MSB both sold and cashed the money 
orders involved in the suspicious activity, it would select “Both”.  If neither 
choice is appropriate, please leave this Item blank.  
• Address information for where the activity occurred (Items 57-61)  – Enter 
the permanent street address for the financial institution entered in Item 53 
(Legal name of financial institution).  Leave Item 59 (State) blank if the state is 
unknown or the country is not the United States, Canada, or Mexico.
• “Internal control/file number” (Item 62)  – See Item 91 in Step 1 for answer to 
similar question .
• “Branch’s role in transaction” (Item 64)  – See Item 52 in Step 2 for answer to 
similar question .
• Address information for branch where activity occurred (Items 65-70)  – Enter 
the permanent street address for branch.  If no branch was involved in the 
suspicious activity, check “If no branch activity involved, check this box” and 
leave Items 64-70 blank.
Inquiries related to Items in Step 3 (Subject Information)
• Who is the subject? (Items 3-5)  – A subject is an individual or other entity 
potentially involved in the suspicious activity.  Enter the individual’s full 
name or the entity’s legal name (for example, the legal name is the name on the 
articles of incorporation or other document that established the entity).  Do not 
abbreviate names unless an abbreviation is part of the legal name.  
--- Page 38 ---
32
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)• “NAICS Code” (Item 7a)  – Select the option that best identifies the occupation 
or type of business entered in Item 7 (Occupation or type of business).  
Filers can access the FinCEN-approved list of North American Industry 
Classification System (NAICS) codes from the BSA E-Filing Web Site at http://
bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/main.html .  If no selection from the NAICS code is 
appropriate, use a specific descriptive word or phrase, such as “Carpenter” or 
“Retired Carpenter” (but not simply “Retired”) on the “Occupation” field and 
do not select a NAICS code.  
• “Relationship of the subject to an institution” (Item 21)  – If the subject has a 
relationship with a financial institution or individual listed in Step 1 or 2 of the 
FinCEN SAR, enter the financial institution’s TIN in Item 21a (Institution EIN).  
Then select all options (21b through 21l) that describe the relationship.  If the 
relationship is not covered by any of these options, select option 21z (Other) 
and enter a brief description of the relationship(s) in the “Other” text field.  
• “Status of the relationship” (Item 22)  – If Items 21h (Director), 21i (Employee), 
21k (Officer), or 21l (Owner or Controlling Shareholder) is selected, indicate the 
status of relationship.
• “Financial institution TIN and account number(s) affected that are related 
to subject” (Item 24)  – Enter information about any accounts involved in the 
suspicious activity that are related to the subject entered in Step 3 (Subject 
Information).  An account is related to a subject if the subject owns the account, 
has control over the account, or conducted activity in or through an account 
the subject does not own or control.  If no account has been identified as being 
related to the suspicious activity, check the “No known accounts involved” 
box.  If the account is located at a foreign financial institution, check the “Non-
U.S. Financial Institution” box.  Enter all identifying numbers as a single text 
string without formatting or special characters such as hyphens or periods.  If 
multiple financial institution TINs or accounts numbers are affected, the filer 
would click the “+” button to create additional Items.   
• “Subject’s role in suspicious activity” (Item 25)  – Select the Item from the 
drop down menu that describes the subject’s role in the suspicious activity as 
it pertains to the products or instruments checked in Items 39 and 40 (note:  if 
both apply, check “Both”).
--- Page 39 ---
33
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Inquiries related to Items in Step 4 (Suspicious Activity 
Information)
• “Date or date range of suspicious activity for this report” (Item 27)  – Enter the 
suspicious activity date or date range for this report.  If the suspicious activity 
occurred on a single day, enter that date in field 27a “From” and leave field 
27b “To” blank.  If the suspicious activity occurred on multiple days, enter 
the earliest date of suspicious activity in field 27a and the most recent date of 
suspicious activity in field 27b.  If the exact date(s) of the suspicious activity 
is (are) unknown, enter a date range that the filer believes will encompass the 
date(s) of the suspicious activity.  
• What is the suspicious activity? (Items 29-40)  – Select all options that apply to 
the type of suspicious activity being reported.  If a category applies but none of 
the options apply, check the “Other” box in that category and briefly describe 
the type of suspicious activity in the associated text field.  
36
 
 
 
 
Inquiries related to Items in Step 4 (S uspicious Activity Information)
 
•“Date or date range of suspicious activity for this report” (Item 27) – Enter 
the suspicious activity date or date range for this report.  If the suspicious 
activity occurred on a single day, enter that date in field 27a "F rom" and leave 
field 27b "To" blank.  If the suspicious activity occurred on multiple days, enter the earliest date of suspicious act ivity in field 27a and the most recent 
date of suspicious activity in field 27b.  If the exact date(s) of the suspicious activity is (are) unknown, enter a date range that the filer believes will 
encompass the date(s) of the suspicious activity.   
 
•What is the suspicious activity? (Items 29 -40) – Select all options that apply 
to the type of suspicious activity being reported.  If a category applies but 
none of the options apply, check the “Other” box in that category and briefly 
describe the type of suspicious activity in the associated text field.   
 
For example, if a financial institution needs to file a FinCEN SAR on check kiting, they would check  the “Other” box  in Item 31 (Fraud) and type the 
word “Kiting” in the associated text field.  For kiting associated with the use 
--- Page 40 ---
34
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22) For example, if a financial institution needs to file a FinCEN SAR on kiting, they 
would check the “Other” box in Item 31 (Fraud) and type the word “Kiting” in 
the associated text field.  For kiting associated with the use of checks, a financial 
institution also would select the “Check” box in Item 31 (Fraud).
37of checks, a financial institution also would select  the “Check” box in Item 31 
(Fraud).  
 
 
 
Inquiries related to Step 5 (Narrative)
 
•What is required when describing the suspicious activity identified?   The 
narrative is critical to understanding the suspicious activity being reported .  
How  the narrative is written may determine whether the suspicious activi ty 
is clearly understood by investigators.  Filers must complete the narrative in English  and provide a clear, complete, and concise description of the 
suspicious activity.  This narrative should include the data provided in the 
FinCEN SAR and any other in formation necessary to explain the suspicious 
activity.  To assist, readers will find a separate article in the Issues & Guidance section of this issue that provides further guidance on constructing  
a SAR narrative . 
 
Useful Links for completing the new Fin CEN SAR
 
•Filing FinCEN's new Currency Transaction Report and Suspicious Activity 
Report (FIN -2012- G002) - 
http://www.fincen.gov/statutes_regs/guidance/html/FIN -2012 -G002.html   
 Inquiries related to Step 5 (Narrative)
• What is required when describing the suspicious activity identified?   The 
narrative is critical to understanding the suspicious activity being reported.  
How the narrative is written may determine whether the suspicious activity 
is clearly understood by investigators.  Filers must complete the narrative in 
English and provide a clear, complete, and concise description of the suspicious 
activity.  This narrative should include the data provided in the FinCEN SAR 
and any other information necessary to explain the suspicious activity.  To 
assist, readers will find a separate article  in the Issues & Guidance section of 
this issue that provides further guidance on constructing a SAR narrative.
Useful Links for completing the new FinCEN SAR
• Filing FinCEN’s new Currency Transaction Report and Suspicious Activity 
Report (FIN-2012-G002) - http://www.fincen.gov/statutes_regs/guidance/html/
FIN-2012-G002.html  
--- Page 41 ---
35
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)• FinCEN Suspicious Activity Report (FinCEN SAR) Electronic 
Filing Requirements - http://bsaefiling.fincen.treas.gov/news/
FinCENSARElectronicFilingRequirements.pdf  
Suspicious Activity Report (SAR):  
Back to the Basics
By FinCEN’s Office of Outreach Resources
SAR Basics
FinCEN is issuing a reminder to filing financial institutions of the importance of an 
accurate and complete Suspicious Activity Report.  The SAR serves as a valuable 
investigative tool by providing information regarding previously unidentified 
accounts, potential illicit movement of monies and terrorist financing, and general 
lead information for financial crimes investigations.  Filers and users of SARs are 
reminded that SARs are confidential.  Similarly, information that would reveal the 
existence or non-existence of a SAR is confidential.  
SAR Preparation
FinCEN, in consultation with other relevant federal regulatory authorities, has issued 
a guidance package12 designed to assist financial institutions in the preparation of 
SARs and to improve the quality of information provided in SAR narratives.  
SAR Narrative 
The SAR Narrative remains a critical component of a SAR filing.  However, with the 
flexibility of the suspicious activity section it was determined that fewer characters 
were necessary in the narrative section of the new SAR.  Thus, the number of 
narrative characters has been limited to 17,000 characters (as compared to between 
approximately 39,000 and 49,000 characters in the legacy forms – depending on the 
SAR type).  However, the narrative section allows filers to include an attachment 
that the financial institution believes would be useful to law enforcement.
12. http://www.fincen.gov/statutes_regs/guidance/html/FIN-2012-G002.html  
--- Page 42 ---
36
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Spreadsheet Attachments
The new SAR will accept a single, 1MB limited, comma separated value (CSV) 
attachment as part of the report.  The CSV is a standard Microsoft file format that 
aids in reporting tabular data into a file format.  This capability allows an institution 
to include data (such as specific financial transactions and funds transfers or other 
analytics), which is more readable and usable in this format than it would be if 
otherwise included in the narrative.  Such an attachment will be considered a part of 
the narrative and is not considered to be a substitute for the narrative.  As with other 
information that may be prepared in connection with the filing of a SAR, it can also 
be considered supporting documentation when not attached to the SAR and should 
be accorded confidentiality to the extent that it indicates the existence of a SAR. 
Characterizations of Suspicious Activity
The new SAR is designed to accommodate the different types of industries that 
will file these reports.  As such, the new SAR contains certain sections of suspicious 
activity characterizations which will generally be most relevant to a specific 
industry.  When the filing institution’s industry is selected in the discrete version of 
the report, other industries will be shaded out to signify a non-applicable status.13
In addition, the FinCEN’s new SAR includes a number of additional data elements 
pertaining to the type of suspicious activity and the financial services involved.  The 
decision to include these additional data elements in the FinCEN SAR arose from 
extensive discussions with law enforcement officials.  It was determined that the 
inclusion of such elements would facilitate more effective use of the information 
collected in the reports.  FinCEN acknowledges that the expansion of these 
characterizations may create the need for clarification on how to select among the 
choices provided to depict the activity, as well as how to describe this information in 
Part V, the narrative.
13. As an example, if the filer is a broker-dealer, then insurance and casino selections may be gray ed 
out; if the filer is a depository institution, then casino and the broker-dealer selections are gray ed 
out.  The full implementation of this capability is still being dev eloped.  Filers may choose to 
enable and use these fields, as necessary, for example, in reporting activity that involv es affiliated 
institutions across industry sectors.  Institutions that batch file their reports may not hav e this 
feature, based on software design.
--- Page 43 ---
37
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Critical Fields
Certain fields in the new SAR are marked as “critical” for technical filing purposes; 
for discrete filers, the BSA E-Filing System will not accept filings in which these 
fields are left blank.14  For these items, the filing institution must either provide 
the requested information or affirmatively check the “unknown” (Unk.) box if 
that box is provided for in a critical field.  This unknown box will supersede 
FinCEN’s previous guidance requesting that filers input ”NOT APPLICABLE,” 
“UNKNOWN,” “NONE,” or “XX” in certain fields.  For those fields that are not 
marked as “critical” for technical filing purposes, the BSA E-Filing System will 
accept reports in which these fields have been left blank.  FinCEN expects that 
financial institutions will provide the most complete filing information available 
within each report consistent with existing regulatory expectations regardless of 
whether or not the individual fields are deemed critical for technical filing purposes 
(i.e., filers must either select the “unknown” box or input the correct information on 
the report even if the field is not considered a critical field.)
Gender Field 
FinCEN has been asked for guidance on the “Gender” Field (Item 4 of Part I: Subject 
Information).  Based on feedback from law enforcement officials, information related 
to the gender of the subject could be an important characteristic for query purposes.  
However, FinCEN has not designated the “Gender” field as mandatory.  
NAICS Code 
FinCEN has also been asked for guidance on the use of the North American Industry 
Classification System (NAICS) code field (Item 7a).  Law enforcement officials have 
indicated that the NAICS code is beneficial in SAR data.  Note: financial institutions 
are not required to become familiar with NAICS codes, as the appropriate list of 
codes is contained in a drop down menu that automatically populates the field.  In 
addition, use of a NAICS code is not mandatory, and a financial institution may still 
provide a text response with respect to this information.
14. Batch filers will be notified via the acknowledgement process that critical field errors were made 
and should be corrected.
--- Page 44 ---
38
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Fields Related to Internet Presence 
The FinCEN SAR includes certain new elements related to the internet presence 
of subjects and suspicious activity, specifically the “E-mail address” and “Website 
(URL) address” fields within Part I: Subject Information and “IP address (if 
available),” in Part II: Suspicious Activity Information.  These are items which many 
filers have previously included in the narratives of the legacy SARs in the context of 
describing suspicious activity.  For example, to show that suspected criminal activity 
was being conducted from a specific internet site location.  By providing a discrete 
space into which such information may additionally be entered, the new reports 
will facilitate FinCEN’s and law enforcement’s ability to make connections between 
elements reported across separate filings and external data sources.  In doing 
so, FinCEN does not intend to create any obligation or expectation that financial 
institutions would collect this information as a matter of course.  The narrative 
section of the report may be used to provide more information as to how an internet 
presence relates to the suspicious activity or to provide any other relevant email or 
IP addresses that may pertain to non-subjects.15
Writing Effective SAR Narratives
By FinCEN’s Office of Outreach Resources
When preparing a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR), filers complete fields on the 
SAR that contain information about the subject(s) of the filing, such as their name and 
address, and the activity being reported, such as the characterization of the suspicious 
activity.  They also report other information such as when the activity occurred, the 
dollar amount involved, and other information that help users of the data identify the 
filer, and identify, investigate or analyze the activity being reported.  The narrative is 
a critical part of the SAR because it is the where the filer can summarize and provide a 
more detailed description of the activity being reported.  For that reason, it is essential 
that the narrative be clear, complete and thorough.  
In this article we include examples of SARs reporting more routine activity that a filer 
might identify – potentially unregistered MSB customers and counterfeit checks.  W e 
explain why a particular example is more or less effective as a SAR narrative.  
15. http://www.fincen.gov/statutes_regs/guidance/pdf/FIN-2012-G002.pdf
--- Page 45 ---
39
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)The Importance of the SAR Narrative
As noted in the article Suspicious Activity Report: Back to the Basics , the size of the 
narrative field has been reduced in the FinCEN SAR.  Other sections of the FinCEN 
SAR have been expanded to allow for filers to provide additional information 
in those parts of the report, such as additional check boxes to characterize the 
suspicious activity being reported.  Even though, as noted, the narrative remains 
a critical part of the FinCEN SAR, filers should consider the reduced size of the 
narrative section, and the expanded fields in other parts of the form, and utilize 
the narrative in such a manner as to maximize the value of the information being 
provided in that section.
When writing a narrative, filers should aim to expand upon the information 
provided in the other parts of the FinCEN SAR and provide any additional 
information needed to address five essential elements of information – who? what? 
when? where?  and why?  – about the suspicious activity being reported:   
Who is conducting the suspicious activity?
Part I of the SAR instructs the filer to provide specific information about the 
subject(s) of the filing.  In the SAR narrative, the filer can further describe the 
suspect(s), such as occupational information, including position or title, and the 
nature of the suspect’s business.  The SAR narrative should also include any 
known relationships among subjects reported on the SAR or businesses identified 
in the narrative.  While detailed subject information may not always be available 
(i.e., situations involving non-account holders), filers should include as much 
information as is known to them about the subject(s).   
What instruments, methods or mechanisms are being used to 
facilitate the suspect transaction(s)?
An effective SAR narrative describes how the subject(s) conducted the illicit activity, 
including what instruments, methods or mechanisms were used.  For example, 
whether shell companies were suspected as being either the sender or beneficiary 
of a wire transfer, or whether the subject(s) used the Internet or Remote Deposit 
Capture to initiate the activity.
--- Page 46 ---
40
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)When did the suspicious activity take place?
If the activity takes place over a period of time, indicate when the suspicious activity 
first occurred and the history of the suspected illicit activity.  To better understand 
the history and nature of the activity, and the flow of funds, filers should provide 
information on each individual transaction (i.e., dates and amounts.)  The ability to 
include attachments in the new FinCEN SAR can help filers in providing this data is 
a more user friendly format than allowed for in the legacy SAR.
Where did the suspicious activity take place?
Filers should indicate any offices or branches of their financial institution that the 
suspicious activity occurred at or through, and provide the addresses of those 
locations.  Filers should also specify whether the activity involved a foreign 
jurisdiction, such as funds wired overseas, and the foreign jurisdiction and/or 
financial institution involved, as well as any account numbers associated with the 
subject of the suspect transaction(s).
Why does the filer think the activity is suspicious?
In answering this question, a filer should describe why the transaction is unusual for 
the customer or why the activity created a red flag for the filer or triggered an alert 
within their system.  These answers will vary based on the filer’s institution type (for 
example, a depository institution vs. an insurance company) and so a filer should 
also consider the types of products and services they offer, what they know about 
the type of accounts the customer has with the institution and the normally expected 
business activity of the customer (if they are a customer of the filer), and why this is 
not normal or expected activity.  
--- Page 47 ---
41
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Reporting Potentially Unregistered MSBs
More effective SAR narrative:
A review of activity in an account for Stop In, Inc. indicates a possible 
unregistered or unlicensed money services business.  This review was 
conducted based on a report indicating unusual or potentially suspicious 
activity based on the customer profile.  Stop In, Inc. has been a bank customer 
since 5/21/2011.  Business checking account number 580214566 was reviewed 
for this case.  The account was opened at the Lake Road branch on 5/21/2011.  
Samuel Jones is an authorized signer on this account.  Transaction activity 
from 5/21/2011 to 8/13/2011 was reviewed and revealed 49 deposits totaling 
$87,856.40.  The deposits included 23 third party checks.  Deposits also 
included nine personal checks for more than $1,000.  Two third party checks 
have been returned for $1,785 and $2,205.  Cash made up 15% of all dollars 
deposited and almost 68% of all dollars withdrawn from the account during 
the period of this review.  No wire transfers were detected.  Account activity 
does not show the expected business expenditures for utilities and rent.  
Research via the internet and through commercial database sources revealed 
no additional pertinent information about the customer.  Bank records revealed 
Stop In, Inc. doing business as a convenience store, Stop-In Food Mart, at Rt. 
1 and Lake Road.  Per bank records, Stop In, Inc.’s taxpayer identification 
number is 01-2345677.  Bank records also revealed that neither Stop In, Inc. 
nor Stop-In Food Mart is registered with FinCEN as a money services business.  
They are licensed by the state of Virginia to cash checks.  The business account 
was closed for failing to indicate it was operating as an MSB, a violation of 
bank account opening policy.  Supporting documentation is available upon 
request.  For assistance, contact the AML/Fraud Unit at 888-999-7777, or 
amlfraud@xbank.com.  Please reference AML Case 2011-XXX.
Why this SAR narrative is more effective:
This SAR narrative explains why the filer believed the customer was an unregistered 
check casher by the type of activity occurring in the account (deposits of third party 
checks and checks over $1,000, and large cash withdrawals).  The filer describes 
when the activity occurred and the transaction amounts involved.  The filer also 
provides details about the customer, including its legal name and the name under 
which it conducts business, the businesses address, type of business, the date the 
--- Page 48 ---
42
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)account was opened, the account number and its licensing and registration status at 
the time of this filing.  The filer also identifies at which branch the customer banked, 
who should be contacted at the bank for supporting documentation, and how to 
reference the case.
Less effective SAR narrative:
First Federal Bank is filing this SAR in connection with possible suspicious 
payments to ABC Corporation originating from XYZ LLC.  This review of the 
transactions that led to the filing of this SAR was prompted by an alert from 
the bank’s payment monitoring system for Century Bank concerning transfers 
on behalf of its client XYZ LLC.  Century Bank is a correspondent-banking client 
of First Federal.  First Federal records reveal that from June 29, 2011 to August 
1, 2011, 4 payments totaling $13,675.21 were transmitted to ABC Corporation 
at Century Bank.  ABC Corporation is being used to repatriate funds to 
Venezuela.  As of March 2, 2012, ABC Corporation does not appear on FinCEN’s 
MSB registration list.
Why this SAR narrative is less effective:
This SAR reported the subject as a potential dealer in foreign exchange, and 
indicates that the subject is being used to repatriate funds to Venezuela, but it does 
not describe how this is occurring or what led the filer to suspect it was occurring.  
What in the filer’s monitoring system drew their attention to the payments sent 
to the subject by XYC LLC – were they not expected business transactions, or not 
from an expected source of funds?  What did ABC Corporation do with the funds 
once they were received?  What was it about these payments that led to the filer to 
suspect it was being used to repatriate funds to Venezuela?  More detail will help 
users of the data better understand the nature of the suspected illicit activity and 
how it is occurring, and can help identify additional potential suspects or links to 
other illicit activity.
--- Page 49 ---
43
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Reporting Counterfeit Check Activity
More effective SAR narrative:
On June 22, 2010, East Valley Bank, a subsidiary of Mountain Bank, referred 
this counterfeit check activity to the Mountain Bank Compliance Department 
involving an account held in the name of Daniel Alan Parker, account number 
20808156.  Account number 20808156 was opened on May 14, 2010 with an 
initial deposit of $500.  On June 5, 2010, Mr. Parker deposited a check in 
the amount of $295,650.20, payable to Daniel Parker, Dallas, TX, from Texas 
Title, Inc. Escrow Account as maker, drawn on Central Bank (“Central”), 
routing and transit number 99990008, account number 6786812882.  Mr. Parker 
requested and received $8,500 in cash from the deposit.  On June 14, 2010 
a bank employee responsible for reviewing large transactions suggested that 
the teller request the return of the $8,500 cash given to Mr. Parker until the 
check was paid by Central.  Mr. Parker stated that he would be “more than 
happy” to return the funds but could not return to the bank until possibly June 
17.  In the meantime, the teller contacted Central Bank to verify the check 
and was told that the funds were available at that time.  On June 22, Central 
Bank notified East Valley Bank that the check was fraudulent.  The teller again 
contacted Mr. Parker and requested the return of funds provided to him from 
the deposit.  Mr. Parker stated that he had become uncomfortable about the 
validity of the check after speaking to the teller and that he had contacted 
Central Bank.  He believed his call to Central prompted them to notify East 
Valley of the fraudulent item.  The teller again asked Mr. Parker to return the 
funds.  Contrary to his earlier agreement, Mr. Parker informed the teller that 
he could not return the funds as he had already used the funds to pay medical 
bills.  Mr. Parker assured the teller that he was expecting a wire transfer 
that would be in excess of the amount of the counterfeit check.  As of July 
29, 2010, no such wire transfer has been received and the account remains 
overdrawn.  It appears as through Texas Title, Inc or an individual purporting 
to represent such company, counterfeited such check in an attempt to defraud 
Mr. Parker and/or East Valley Bank.  It also appears as though Mr. Parker made 
false statements to bank employees regarding the existence of an anticipated 
wire transfer in an attempt to defraud the bank.  East Valley anticipates a loss 
in the amount of $7,300, the negative balance of Mr. Parker’s account.  SAR 
supporting documentation retained includes internal correspondence, copy of 
the counterfeit check and account statements. 
--- Page 50 ---
44
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Why this SAR narrative is more effective:
This narrative describes how the subject opened the account on May 14 with a 
small deposit followed very shortly by a large deposit that led to the subsequent 
suspicious activity.  The filer explains the source of the funds and how they came to 
learn that the check was fraudulent.  They also explain in detail their exchanges with 
the subject and the subject’s actions that led them to believe that he might be a party 
to the suspicious activity.  
Less effective SAR narrative:
The purpose of this SAR is to report a counterfeit check payable to Mark 
Evans for $14,620 was deposited into the sole account of Mary Louise Evans, 
Charter State Bank account number 65697142, on 4/5/11. The check was 
drawn on the National Bank account of Dynamic Tech, Inc.  The maker of 
the check is Elizabeth Thomas.  Mark Evans endorsed the check over to Mary 
Louise Evans.  A hold was placed on the funds.  On 4/13/11 the check was 
returned unpaid as unable to locate.  National Bank confirmed the check is 
counterfeit.  Mark Evans stated he received the check via FedEx from Alex 
Jones as payment for a vehicle he had listed for sale on Craigslist.  No loss 
was sustained due to the hold.  
Why this SAR narrative is less effective:
This SAR listed only the account holder, Mary Louise Evans, as the subject; 
however, the narrative does not describe the account holder’s role in the activity 
being reported – other than being the recipient of the endorsed check.  As described 
in this narrative, Mark Evans, Elizabeth Thomas and/or Alex Jones would seem to 
be subjects in this reported activity and the bank should have considered listing 
them as subjects as well, with as much information as is known on those subjects.  
This narrative also does not explain the connection between the check being drawn 
on Dynamic Tech and the sale of a vehicle through an Internet site and why this is 
relevant.   
Use of key terms
Using clear, concise terms assists users of FinCEN data in identifying the suspicious 
activity being described in the SAR narrative.  Certain FinCEN Advisories have 
recommended the use of key terms to identify particular activities, such as use 
of the term “tax refund fraud” described in FinCEN Advisory–FIN-2012-A005, 
--- Page 51 ---
45
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Tax Refund Fraud and Related Identity Theft.  The use of short, concise phrases, 
such as “unregistered MSB” or “unlicensed check casher,” is also helpful in more 
quickly identifying activity being reported.  Additional information on key terms is 
available at http://www.fincen.gov/news_room/advisory/AdvisoryKeyTerms.html .  
Use of attachments
Filers using the legacy SAR forms cannot include attachments when filing a SAR.  
The new FinCEN SAR will allow filers to include a single, comma separated value 
(CSV) attachment with their SAR filing.  This attachment would be part of the 
narrative, but not a substitute for the narrative.  The attachment functionality will 
allow filers to include data, such as a list of counterfeit checks, in a more readable 
and usable format.  The file can also be considered supporting documentation when 
not attached to the SAR. 
For additional information on the new SAR, see the articles “ SAR Activity Review: 
Back to the Basics ” and “ Analysis of Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) Inquiries 
Received by FinCEN’s Regulatory Helpline ” included in this issue.  Additional 
information on the new SAR and the new CTR can also be found on FinCEN’s 
website at http://www.fincen.gov/whatsnew/html/20120329.html .  
--- Page 53 ---
47
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)In each issue of The SAR Activity Review , representatives from the financial 
services industry offer insights into an aspect of compliance management or 
fraud prevention.  In this issue, we get an industry perspective on the AML risks 
presented by Business Funded Prepaid Cards.  The Industry Forum  section provides 
an opportunity for the industry to share its views.  The information provided may 
not represent the official position of the U.S. Government. 
Taking a Second Look at AML Risks from 
Business Funded Prepaid Cards: It’s a Whole 
New Ball Game
By Judith Rinearson, Bryan Cave LLP
Regulatory Counsel, Network Branded Prepaid Card Association 
(NBPCA)16Industry Forum
Introduction
Prepaid cards are generally considered a higher risk payment product (as compared 
to credit and debit cards) and the recent Prepaid Access regulations issued by 
FinCEN do a solid job at addressing those risks.  But an important subset of prepaid 
card products were not discussed and perhaps not even contemplated when the 
Prepaid Access regulations were developed: prepaid cards purchased, issued or 
loaded solely by businesses (“Business Funded Cards”).  These cards represent a 
very different set of risk and compliance issues – and deserve a fresh look.  (Yes, 
it’s a “whole new ball game.”)  This article discusses the range of business funded 
prepaid card products, the risks arising from such products, how such products are 
currently addressed under the Prepaid Access regulations, and suggests some best 
practices for issuing banks, providers and sellers of such products. 
16. Judith wishes to thank Kristine M. Andreassen of Bryan Cave’s Washington, D.C. office for her 
assistance in preparing this article.  Although Judith serves as Chair of the NBPCA Government 
Relations Working Group and as the NBPCA representative on BSAAG, the views and opinions set 
forth in this article are her own and should not be attributed to the NBPCA or its members.
--- Page 54 ---
48
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)What are Business Funded Cards? 
The term “Business Funded Cards” encompasses a broad range of prepaid card 
programs that are funded solely by corporations, financial institutions, employers, 
and other business entities of all kinds to make payments.  These payments were 
traditionally made in the form of checks (or paper gift certificates), which is 
expensive for the business and, in many cases, inconvenient for the recipient. 
Business Funded Cards can include both “closed loop” cards issued by retailers17 
(for example, when a business purchases 100 gift cards from a local restaurant to 
give to employees or customers during the holidays) as well as “open loop” cards 
issued by banks and financial institutions18 (for example, when employees are issued 
payroll cards to receive their wages).  
Below are examples of some of the different types of Business Funded Card 
programs that exist today.  Please note that not all of these Business Funded Card 
programs are “reloadable.”  Certain incentive payments, gifting programs, wellness 
payments, bonuses, insurance claim payments and disaster relief payments are 
often one-time payments that do not involve reloading by either the business or the 
recipient.  
1. Business Funded Cards in which the funds are “owned” by the recipient to 
whom the card is issued .  Certain prepaid cards replace checks that are paid 
from a business to an individual, for funds that are owed by the business to, 
and belong to, the recipient.  Examples where funds on a prepaid card are 
ultimately owed to, and owned by, an individual include:
a. Benefits, incentives, wages, salaries, commissions or bonuses paid to 
employees, vendors, distribution channel partners, or independent 
contractors.
b. FSA, HSA and HRA arrangements, and employee wellness programs. 
c. Per diem allowances for employees’ travel expenses (where any amount 
under the daily allowance is kept by the employee). 
17. The term “closed loop” card generally refers to prepaid cards that are issued for limited purposes 
and can only be used at a single retailer or retail chain, or at a single w ebsite to make purchases, 
and cannot be used to access cash.  Retailer-issued gift cards, such as Home Depot cards or 
Starbucks cards, are typical closed loop prepaid cards. 
18. The term “open loop” card generally refers to prepaid cards that are issued by a bank or financial 
institution, display a payment network brand on the front (Visa, MasterCard, American Express or 
Discover) and can be used widely to make purchases where that brand is accepted and/or to obtain 
cash at ATMs.
--- Page 55 ---
49
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)d. Reimbursements to employees, vendors or contractors who have incurred 
business expenses.
e. Disbursement of insurance claims paid to individuals. 
f. Disaster relief payments to individuals.
2. Business Funded Cards in which the funds are still “owned” by the business 
and do not belong to the recipient to whom the card is issued .  Examples where 
funds on prepaid cards generally belong to the business include:
a. Cards given to a company’s employees to use for future business expenses.  
This may be an alternative to issuing company credit cards to employees, or 
having employees pay expenses themselves and submit for reimbursement.  
Examples include purchasing cards or travel expense cards.
b. Cards given to a company’s independent contractors to use for future 
business expenses.  Example: Purchasing Cards used to obtain building 
materials by a general contractor making repairs at the company’s office. 
c. Cards given to a company’s vendors (businesses) for accounts payable 
payments or reimbursements.  For example, trucking companies often 
provide cards to drivers for fuel and repairs.  The card may be embossed with 
the company’s name instead of the driver’s name and the company funding 
the card may not know which individual(s) will ultimately use the card.
3. Business Funded Cards in which the funds are granted by the business to a 
customer temporarily as an incentive, reward or promotional item, but are 
not “owned” by the customer and may revert back to the business if they are 
not used under the terms of the promotional, reward or incentive program .  
Examples where funds do not represent an obligation owed to an individual, 
but the ability to use the card often for a limited period (versus ownership of 
funds) include:
a. Marketing reward or loyalty programs.  These include gift cards issued by 
retailers based on previous shopping or accrued loyalty points.
b. Promotions, giveaways and rebates.  These include “gift with purchases” 
or gift cards used to promote the purchase of a manufacturer’s product or a 
specific travel destination.
--- Page 56 ---
50
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)It is important to note that this discussion of Business Funded Cards addresses 
only cards that are funded solely by the business.  Some prepaid cards combine 
two attributes – they are both business funded and consumer funded.  For example, 
there are payroll cards that are “portable.”  In addition to receiving the employee’s 
payroll or wages from the employer, the employee has the option of loading his or 
her own funds onto the payroll card, and can keep and continue to use the payroll 
card even when moving to a new employer.  Such cards pose different risks and are 
not intended to be included within the scope of this article. 
What Risks Arise from Business Funded Cards?
There are many factors that go into a risk assessment of Business Funded Cards.  
However, taken as a whole, this group of prepaid payment products tends to pose 
less risks than consumer funded cards for one critical reason:  the source of funds 
is known.  This is particularly true for open loop cards which are issued by banks 
or similar financial institutions and which are acquired or purchased by publicly 
traded corporations.19
One factor that makes Business Funded Cards so different from consumer funded 
cards is that, with Business Funded Cards, it is actually more important to know 
your business customer than it is to know the ultimate cardholder.  It is the business, 
not the cardholder, that is the source of funds, and any misuse of Business Funded 
Cards primarily derives from false business fronts, shell corporations, and other 
criminal efforts to disguise the business ownership, purpose and/or source of funds.  
For these customers, the biggest risk arises from the failure to adequately identify 
and verify, and collect other information about, the business itself. 
Banks that are familiar with Business Funded Card programs understand the 
importance of knowing their business customers that purchase prepaid cards.  Under 
standard bank procedures, a business that wishes to obtain and load prepaid cards for 
its employees, customers or business partners becomes the direct customer of that bank.  
The business (including its source of funds) is vetted by the bank both initially and 
on an ongoing basis.  Both Customer Identification Program (CIP) and Customer Due 
Diligence (CDD) procedures are performed on the business, often including the review 
of publicly available information, financial statements, references, and information about 
the business’ owners and/or management, as well as understanding the purpose for the 
business’ acquisition of open loop prepaid cards and the expected usage of such cards. 
19. Although open loop prepaid cards can be issued by a range of regulated financial institutions, 
including banks, savings associations, credit unions, and some licensed money transmitters, for  
purposes of this article, we will refer to these all as “banks.”
--- Page 57 ---
51
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Closely tied to the CIP/CDD process, banks that issue and distribute Business 
Funded Cards also perform back-end monitoring of transactions.  This is a critical 
part of a bank’s AML program.  For example, Business Funded Cards that are 
distributed to cruise line passengers as part of their travel package would be 
expected to be used in the Caribbean; Business Funded Cards issued for expense 
reimbursement purposes to construction workers in Des Moines would not.  
Other factors that determine the level of risk posed by a Business Funded Card 
program are (i) whether the cards can be used to access cash; and (ii) whether the 
cards are reloadable.  In many cases, especially in reward and promotional programs, 
Business Funded Cards are not reloadable nor can they be used to access cash.  Such 
cards do not have many of the functionalities of general purpose reloadable (GPR) 
prepaid cards and certainly do not function like bank account substitutes. 
Can Business Funded Cards be misused?  Of course they can.  As noted above, 
there are some examples of the misuse of Business Funded Cards – but these cases 
generally involve the failure to perform solid CIP and due diligence on the business 
involved – not the individual cardholder.  Some examples of misuse of Business 
Funded Cards include: 
• A Black Market Peso Exchange operation involving a crooked program 
manager who set up payroll card programs for fake companies.20  $39 million 
was withdrawn from these fake payroll cards at a single ATM in Colombia 
from 2006 to mid-2007.
• A company layered funds for clients (criminal enterprises) and transferred 
those funds overseas.  All clients had prepaid cards onto which funds could 
be delivered (some had 1 card, others had 50 or 100 cards).  Cards from three 
different crooked program managers were involved. 
• A Black Market Peso Exchange operation involving a “multi-level marketing 
scheme” through which customers could purchase prepaid cards to buy 
electronics and other items at affiliated retail stores.21
20.  Some of these examples also demonstrate the importance of banks performing thorough due 
diligence on its third party service providers.  This crucial issue has been w ell documented.  See, for 
example, OCC Bulletin 2001-47; FFIEC Interagency Statement on Risk Management of Outsourced 
Technology Services; OTS Thrift Bulletin 82a; FDIC FIL-44-2008; and BSA Exam manual.
21. See http://www.justice.gov/dea/pubs/states/newsrel/2009/nyc102309.html .
--- Page 58 ---
52
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)• A cleaning company allegedly put job applicants on its payroll without their 
knowledge.  Payroll cards and PINs for these “ghost” employees were sent 
directly to the cleaning company.22
These above examples demonstrate the importance of performing careful and 
effective customer identification and due diligence for business customers loading 
or purchasing Business Funded Cards. 
What Do the Prepaid Access Regulations Require for Business 
Funded Cards? 
The Prepaid Access regulations require providers and sellers of prepaid access, 
as part of their AML programs, to “establish procedures to verify the identity of a 
person who obtains  prepaid access under a prepaid program and obtain identifying 
information concerning such a person, including name, date of birth, address, and 
identification number.”23  The use of the term “obtains” is a little unclear, because 
it could apply to the purchaser as well as to the ultimate end-user of a Business 
Funded Card.  Perhaps this is an area where further clarification can be provided, 
because in many instances the end-user is not the customer of the issuing bank, 
nor is he or she a “customer” of the provider or seller of the prepaid access in any 
traditional sense. 
In the preamble to the Prepaid Access regulations, FinCEN states the following 
regarding the identification and verification requirements:
This regulation adds a customer information  recordkeeping requirement 
(including name, address, date of birth, and identification number) for the 
provider and seller of prepaid access.
* * * * *
FinCEN believes that obtaining and retaining (or retaining access to) such 
customer information is necessary for greater financial transparency concerning 
the purchasers of prepaid access .
* * * * *
22. See http://www.ice.gov/doclib/aml/pdf/2009/murray.pdf  at 12-14.
23. 31 CFR 1022.210(d)(1)(iv), emphasis added.
--- Page 59 ---
53
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)These requirements are intended to mirror the customer identification programs 
required of other financial institutions  and draws on the explanations and 
interpretations issued with respect to those requirements. 
* * * * *
Providers and sellers of prepaid access are reminded that the AML programs 
they develop pursuant to this rule should be a ppropriate for their prepaid 
operations .24 
For Business Funded Cards, it is the business, not an individual, that is the source 
of funds and that purchases the prepaid access.  That is why the question must 
be asked:  “Who is the person that has ‘obtained’ the prepaid access when the 
product is a Business Funded Card?”  Using a risk-based approach, collecting and 
verifying the cardholder’s personal information on a blanket basis many not be 
appropriate for all cardholders with Business Funded Cards – especially when the 
business-funded cards cannot be reloaded or do not access cash.  In this regard, it 
should be noted that in a traditional bank account opened for a business, the bank’s 
CIP obligation clearly relates to the business and not to the business’ individual 
customers or employees who may receive checks from that business.25  Moreover, in 
most instances, the risk of abuse of Business Funded Cards for money laundering 
and terrorist financing purposes lies predominantly with the business that is 
funding the cards, not the individual who may ultimately spend those funds.  If 
a provider’s AML program is to be “appropriate” for its operations, then it is 
certainly crucial that identification/verification should be performed on the business 
obtaining the prepaid access.  
What Are Some Recommendations for Banks, Provides and Sellers 
involved with Business Funded Card programs?
Business Funded Cards do pose some risks and best practices dictate that certain 
procedures should be followed by banks, providers and sellers that wish to issue, 
promote and distribute Business Funded Card products.  Here are some suggestions:
• Thorough due diligence must be performed on the business that is the source 
of funds.  Depending on the business and the product(s) involved, this might 
involve checking Secretary of State incorporation/formation records, reviewing 
24. 76 Fed. Reg. 45404, 45413 (July 29, 2011), emphasis added.
25. See 31 CFR 1010.220.
--- Page 60 ---
54
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other sources, 
obtaining references or running credit and/or background checks.  The larger 
the purchase, the more closely the business should be scrutinized.
• For Business Funded Cards issued through an employer, collection of the 
individual cardholder’s (i.e., employee’s) identifying information and identity 
verification is done by the employer, via the I-9 process. Issuing banks or 
providers that rely on the employer’s I-9 processes should perform due 
diligence not simply on the identification and verification of the employer, but 
also on the employer’s internal procedures in order to ensure that the employer 
follows a effective I-9 process, retains the records, and can provide access 
to the bank or provider upon request.  Adherence to these procedures must 
also be audited from time to time.  For example, some issuers or providers do 
annual “spot checks” by requesting the employers provide I-9 files for a small 
sampling of payroll cardholders to ensure that such files are complete and 
available.  By not requiring all data to be transferred to the issuing bank and/or 
provider, the risk of data security and privacy breaches may also be reduced.
• For sales incentives and similar programs, collection of identifying information 
and identity verification is done on the sales reps by the company that employs 
the sales reps.  The program sponsor (e.g., a manufacturer) would have 
performed its own due diligence on the company that employs the sales reps 
and the card issuer would have access to the program sponsor’s data on an as 
needed basis.  Again, as a best practice, issuing banks and providers should 
include in its due diligence process a review of the kinds of data the program 
sponsor itself collects and verifies, and ensure that the bank/provider has access 
to the data if needed. 
• For certain Business Funded Card programs where cards are delivered to 
specific customers as part of loyalty or promotional programs, some identifying 
information is generally collected from the customer via a participation or 
enrollment form.  For example, when a telecommunications company offers a 
rebate to customers for purchasing a particular mobile phone, the customer will 
have to meet certain eligibility criteria and have an account with the telecom 
company.  During that account opening process, identifying information is 
collected about the customer, and some form of verification may be performed 
as well.  These cards also pose significantly lower risks because they are 
generally lower value disposable cards that cannot be reloaded, cannot access 
cash and cannot be used internationally. 
--- Page 61 ---
55
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)• For all prepaid card programs, including Business Funded Cards, transactional 
activity should be monitored on a regular basis for unusual activity such as 
high dollar loads, high dollar spend, MCC code restrictions and international 
activity, as well as any activity that conflicts with the stated purpose of the card 
program. 
• For bulk purchases of “closed loop” cards, especially in amounts exceeding 
$10,000, the issuing retailers should also collect information about the business 
that is purchasing the cards, the purpose of the purchase, and expected usage, 
and should monitor use to make sure it does not conflict with the stated 
purpose of the card program. 
Conclusion
Business Funded Cards can be “win-win-win” products that benefit prepaid card 
issuers, providers and sellers, as well as the businesses that fund them, and the 
recipients who use them.  Both bank and MSBs that offer such cards should establish 
appropriate risk-based AML compliance programs that take into account the very 
unique and different risks posed by such products.   
--- Page 63 ---
57
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)Financial Crimes Enforcement Network  
U.S. Department of the Treasury 
Tell Us What You Think
Your feedback is important and will assist us in planning future issues of The SAR 
Activity Review .  Please take the time to complete this form.  The form can be 
faxed to FinCEN at (202) 354-6411 or accessed and completed online at  
http://www.fincen.gov/feedback/fb.sar.artti.php .  
Questions regarding The SAR Activity Review can be submitted to sar.review@
fincen.gov . For all other questions, please contact our Regulatory Helpline at (800) 
949-2732.  Please do not submit questions regarding suspicious activity reports 
to the SAR Activity Review mailbox . 
A. Please identify your type of financial institution.
Depository Institution:  Securities and Futures Industry:
__ Bank or Bank Holding Company  __ Securities Broker/Dealer
__ Savings Association  __Futures Commission Merchant
__ Credit Union  __Introducing Broker in Commodities
__ Foreign Bank with U.S. Branches or Agencies __Mutual Fund
Money Services Business:  Casino or Card Club:
__ Money Transmitter  __ Casino located in Nevada
__ Money Order Company or Agent  __ Casino located outside of Nevada
__ Traveler’s Check Company or Agent  __ Card Club
__ Currency Dealer or Exchanger
__ Prepaid Access
__ Insurance Company
__ Dealers in Precious Metals, Precious Stones, or Jewels
__ Other (please identify): _________
B. Please indicate your level of satisfaction with each section of this issue of 
The SAR Activity Review- Trends Tips and Issues  (circle your response). 
 1=Not Useful, 5=Very Useful
Section 1 - Director’s Forum  1  2  3  4  5
Section 2 - Trends and Analysis 1  2  3  4  5
Section 3 - Law Enforcement Cases  1  2  3  4  5
Section 4 - Issues & Guidance  1  2  3  4  5
Section 5 - Industry Forum  1   2   3   4   5Feedback Form

--- Page 64 ---
58
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
SAR Activity Review — Trends, Tips & Issues (Issue 22)C. What information or article in this edition did you find the most helpful or 
interesting?  Please explain why (please indicate by topic title):
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
D. What information did you find least helpful or interesting?  Please explain why 
(again, please indicate by topic title):
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
E. What new TOPICS, TRENDS, or PATTERNS in suspicious activity would you like 
to see addressed in the next edition of The SAR Activity Review – Trends, Tips 
& Issues ? Please be specific, for example: information on a certain type of 
activity, or an emerging technology of interest.
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
F . What other feedback does your financial institution have about The SAR 
Activity Review publication itself? 
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________
G. How often do you read the SAR Activity Review? (Check all that apply)
[ ] Every Issue
[ ] Occasionally
[ ] Only issues with content directly applicable to my industry or area of interest
